Document actor system (#1748)
elastic/rally: docs/architecture/actor_system.md

# Rally Actor System

At its heart, Rally is a distributed system. It has been designed that way to
allow using multiple load drivers in the same benchmark, to ensure that Rally

> is never a bottleneck. In the vast majority of cases, using a powerful load

Reviewer: Another reason (the first one, IIRC) is that distributing Rally also provides an easy way to handle multiple target hosts and ensure that they all build/install/start the required ES version via the `race` subcommand (this is for example the mode used on the Hetzner nightly benchmarks).
Later on we got the dedicated/decoupled `esrally build/install/start/stop` subcommands (which we use e.g. in esbench) and these are decoupled from the actor system.

Author: The current formulation isn't correct then, however my understanding is that this is achievable without a full-fledged actor system, while we could easily end up re-implementing Thespian badly to support multiple load drivers.

Reviewer: > however my understanding is that this is achievable without a full-fledged actor system, while we could easily end up re-implementing Thespian badly to support multiple load drivers.

I mostly agree. I don't think the risk of supporting >1 load drivers without the actor system would necessarily result in re-implementing Thespian, but as always, the devil is in the details.

Reviewer 2: I've changed the wording slightly in https://github.com/elastic/rally/pull/1748/commits/ac1aec8d28bbfb0623dd1e579a241f281344eafb.

> driver is enough, but benchmarks large Elasticsearch clusters containing tens

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
driver is enough, but benchmakring large Elasticsearch clusters containing tens
```

or hundreds of nodes can require more load drivers.

## Thespian

Actors are managed by [Thespian](https://thespianpy.com/doc/) which provide us
with the following features:

>  * Works with Linux and macOS (and Windows, but Rally does not need that)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
 * Works with Linux and macOS (and Windows, though Rally does not support Windows)
```

 * Handles the communication between actors regardless of their locations
 * Scales from running Rally and Elasticsearch on one workstation to
   benchmarking large Elasticsearch clusters with multiple load drivers,
   without any change to the Rally codebase.

While it is not without its rough edges, it is [well
documented](https://thespianpy.com/doc/using.html) and battle tested.
Additionally, the maintainer has always been responsive and helpful.

## Sequence diagrams

Rally has a number of actors that all inherit from `actor.RallyActor`. This
document focuses on the actors needed to *prepare* and *run* a benchmark, with
the following limitations:

>  * The mechanic actors that can setup an Elasticsearch cluster are not covered

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * The mechanic actors that can set up an Elasticsearch cluster are not covered
```

 * Failure and cancellation are ignored, this is about the happy path
 * This pretends that we are benchmarking on a single machine with a single
   core.

The sequence diagram below starts with `BenchmarkActor` defined in
`racecontrol.py` which does the high-level scheduling:

 * Setup the Elasticsearch cluster if the pipeline requires it (not covered
   here)
 * Prepare the benchmark which involves the `TrackPreparator` and
   `TaskExecutionActor` actors.
 * Start the benchmark, which will involve the `Worker` actor that will

>    delegate the actual work to `AsyncIoAdapter`, that will run an asyncio loop

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   delegate the actual work to `AsyncIoAdapter`, which will run an asyncio loop
```

   in a thread, which is how `AsyncExecutor` runs many Elasticsearch async
   clients.

You'll notice that `DriverActor` and `Driver` are tightly coupled. While
`Driver` contains most of the logic, it is not an actor, so it relies on
`DriverActor` to send and receive messages. This was done for two reasons:

 * `Driver` can be unit-tested without bringing the actor system

>  * An earlier attempt at removing the actor system failed.

Reviewer 2: I've removed this bullet in https://github.com/elastic/rally/pull/1748/commits/ac1aec8d28bbfb0623dd1e579a241f281344eafb.

### PrepareBenchmark

Here's the sequence diagram for benchmark preparation. Dotted lines

> means messages sent with the actor systems, while plain lines are

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
mean messages sent with the actor systems, while plain lines are
```
